README.md, before:

# Oremus-Labs Kubernetes Configuration

This repository codifies the full state of the Oremus-Labs management cluster by using Argo CD's App-of-Apps model. Everything that runs on the cluster starts here and is deployed by Argo CD via Helm.

## Layout

- `clusters/oremus-labs/mgmt/bootstrap/` – the only manifest that must be applied manually. It creates the root Argo CD `Application` that points back into this repo.
- `clusters/oremus-labs/mgmt/root/` – Argo CD synchronizes this path. It defines projects and the ApplicationSets that orchestrate platform/workload components.
- `apps/` – Helm value overlays for every component managed by Argo CD (platform or workload).

## Managed components

- Argo CD (platform GitOps control plane) – Helm chart `argo-cd` pinned at `5.34.3`, with Redis state persisted on Longhorn.
- Kube-VIP (control-plane virtual IP / load-balancer) – Helm chart `kube-vip` pinned at `0.9.1`.
- MetalLB (in-cluster load balancer) – Helm chart `metallb` pinned at `0.14.5`.
- Metrics Server (resource usage API) – Helm chart `metrics-server` pinned at `3.12.1`.
- cert-manager (automated TLS) – Helm chart `cert-manager` pinned at `v1.19.1` with ClusterIssuer + Cloudflare DNS01 for `oremuslabs.app`.
- CoreDNS (cluster DNS) – Helm chart `coredns` pinned at `1.45.0`, configured for MicroK8s defaults.
- 1Password Connect + Operator (secret automation) – Helm chart `1password/connect` pinned at `2.0.5`, deployed in namespace `1password` and exposed via Traefik at `op.oremuslabs.app`.
- Longhorn (distributed block storage) – Helm chart `longhorn` pinned at `1.10.1`, exposed through Traefik at `longhorn.oremuslabs.app`.
- MinIO (S3-compatible object storage) – Helm chart `minio` pinned at `5.4.0`, scheduled on node `sun` with Longhorn-backed storage from `/mnt/ol` and reachable at `s3.oremuslabs.app` (API) and `minio.oremuslabs.app` (console).

## DNS

All platform entrypoints terminate on Traefik's LoadBalancer at `10.10.10.52`. Whenever a new route is added, create/verify matching DNS `A` (and optional `AAAA`) records that point to this address (for example, `longhorn.oremuslabs.app -> 10.10.10.52`) so the hostname resolves externally.

## Bootstrap

```bash
kubectl apply -f clusters/oremus-labs/mgmt/bootstrap/root-application.yaml
```

Once the root application finishes syncing, the management cluster will be fully in sync with the declarations in this repository.

Commit message:

Add SMB server on Longhorn

README.md, after:

# Oremus-Labs Kubernetes Configuration

This repository codifies the full state of the Oremus-Labs management cluster by using Argo CD's App-of-Apps model. Everything that runs on the cluster starts here and is deployed by Argo CD via Helm.

## Layout

- `clusters/oremus-labs/mgmt/bootstrap/` – the only manifest that must be applied manually. It creates the root Argo CD `Application` that points back into this repo.
- `clusters/oremus-labs/mgmt/root/` – Argo CD synchronizes this path. It defines projects and the ApplicationSets that orchestrate platform/workload components.
- `apps/` – Helm value overlays for every component managed by Argo CD (platform or workload).

## Managed components

- Argo CD (platform GitOps control plane) – Helm chart `argo-cd` pinned at `5.34.3`, with Redis state persisted on Longhorn.
- Kube-VIP (control-plane virtual IP / load-balancer) – Helm chart `kube-vip` pinned at `0.9.1`.
- MetalLB (in-cluster load balancer) – Helm chart `metallb` pinned at `0.14.5`.
- Metrics Server (resource usage API) – Helm chart `metrics-server` pinned at `3.12.1`.
- cert-manager (automated TLS) – Helm chart `cert-manager` pinned at `v1.19.1` with ClusterIssuer + Cloudflare DNS01 for `oremuslabs.app`.
- CoreDNS (cluster DNS) – Helm chart `coredns` pinned at `1.45.0`, configured for MicroK8s defaults.
- 1Password Connect + Operator (secret automation) – Helm chart `1password/connect` pinned at `2.0.5`, deployed in namespace `1password` and exposed via Traefik at `op.oremuslabs.app`.
- Longhorn (distributed block storage) – Helm chart `longhorn` pinned at `1.10.1`, exposed through Traefik at `longhorn.oremuslabs.app`.
- MinIO (S3-compatible object storage) – Helm chart `minio` pinned at `5.4.0`, scheduled on node `sun` with Longhorn-backed storage from `/mnt/ol` and reachable at `s3.oremuslabs.app` (API) and `minio.oremuslabs.app` (console).
- SMB share (Windows file storage) – custom Samba deployment backed by Longhorn storage on `sun`, providing a 2 TiB share exposed via the in-cluster LoadBalancer.

## DNS

All platform entrypoints terminate on Traefik's LoadBalancer at `10.10.10.52`. Whenever a new route is added, create/verify matching DNS `A` (and optional `AAAA`) records that point to this address (for example, `longhorn.oremuslabs.app -> 10.10.10.52`) so the hostname resolves externally.

## Bootstrap

```bash
kubectl apply -f clusters/oremus-labs/mgmt/bootstrap/root-application.yaml
```

Once the root application finishes syncing, the management cluster will be fully in sync with the declarations in this repository.
